Hi, my name is Meleah Caron, and I went to high school in the Woodlands, Texas.
I attended the Space Settlement Design Competitions at the Johnson Space Center.
I now go to the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign, and I'm studying East Asian
Languages and Cultures with a focus on Mandarin Chinese.
The Space Settlement Competitions introduce you to a world that, at least for me as a
student, didn't seem possible.
Space Settlement is science fiction, and it wasn't something that I believed that I,
with no prior knowledge, could contribute to.
But then you get to the event, and you realize that there are topics that you can address
and explore, and the next thing you know, you see your designs reflected in the team's
proposal.
I would recommend the Space Settlement Competitions to anyone who is at all interested in space,
math, engineering, 3D modeling, or pretty much anything in that realm.
But you also have to be someone who is willing to accept criticism.
The single best thing that I got out of the competition was knowing how I reacted to pressure
and stressful conditions, and getting to practice moving through that reaction.
Obviously, the material that you are learning is really cool, and you get to work with all
these mentors who have industry experience, and they're treating you like a real person,
and you're talking about inducing gravity in a space station, or using solar power,
making Gantt charts, and how to direct the team and all of these objectives at the same
time.
I'm confident that every single student leaves the contest having learned something about
space settlement, but there's a bigger takeaway than that.
We may not all become rocket scientists, but everyone will at some point feel the pressure
to get things done in a chaotic situation, and it's really cool to get to practice that
with a group of students who are also feeling that pressure.
I actually really enjoyed the craziness of it all, and I realized that I enjoyed facilitating
a team to accomplish goals together.
That's something that I'm bringing with me into my future career in Army Intelligence.